---
layout: post
title: "Org Mode and Emacs Calendar"
date: 2018-07-27
categories: linux jekyll update
---

[Org Mode](https://orgmode.org/) is one of the top reasons to learn Emacs. 

# Useful Org key-bindings

- `C-SPACE` mark region
- `M-RET` goes to the next item
- `C-c C-t` makes an item TODO
- `S-<RIGHT>` make an item TODO. You can also type TODO in front of the item
- `S-<UP>` change priority of a TODO.
- `TAB` folds and unfolds and item
- `M-<RIGHT>` sub item
- `C-c [` adds the file to agenda
- `C-c [` adds an org file
- `C-c C-j` jumps elsewhere in the document
- `C-c .` adds a date to the agenda
- `C-c !` addds a date without adding it to the agenda
- `C-c C-s` schedules an agenda item
- `C-c C-d` adds a deadline
- `C-c C-o` opens a link

# Types of Timestamps in Org

The following formats of timestamps determine how they appear in the agenda.

* Plain timestamp `<2007-06-17 19:15-22:00>`. It can be inserted with `C-c .`.
* Timestamp with repeater interval, e.g. `<2007-06-17 +1w>`
* ~~Diary style~~
* Time/Date range: `<2007-06-17>--<2007-06-29>` between the first and last date of the range.
* Inactive timestamps. They use square brackets `[2007-06-17]`. It can be inserted with `C-c !`.

Timestamps can be edited with `S-<LEFT>` and `S-<RIGHT>` (increments by one day).

# Emacs Calendar

* `M-x calendar` brings up the calendar
* `mouse-3` operations on a particular date
* `mouse-2` functions that are not related to any particular date
* `C-f` and `C-b` move back and forth by a day.
* `g d` goes to specific date
* `>` and `<` scrolls
* `M-=` counts days
* `M-x holidays`, `M-x list-holidays`shows holidays
* `M-x sunrises-sunset` shows it for today. Or, select a date and press `S`
* For info on setting location and time zone, look up `(emacs)Sunrise/Sunset` in [info]({% post_url 2018-01-10-emacs_info.md %})
* `M-x lunar-phases` displays dates and times for lunar phases 
