---
layout: post
title:  "Git Reference Sheet"
date:   2018-03-13
categories: jekyll update
---

## Basics
I wrote about `git` [before]({% post_url 2018-01-10-github %}) (for GitHub use). There is a lot more to `git`. Below is a list of some of the important commands. I relied on [this youtube series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVsySz-h9r4&list=PL-osiE80TeTuRUfjRe54Eea17-YfnOOAx) for this post.

### Set User
```
git config --global user.name 'name'
git config --global user.email 'email'
```

### Stop tracking
```
rm -rf .git
```

### Remove files from the staging area
```
git reset
```

### Git info on the git repository
```
git status # which files changed
git diff   # shows the chances
git log    # commits history
git log --stat # shows the files that were changed in the commit
git remote -v # where is the remote
git branch #-a, shows branches
git reflog # commits history
```

### Create a branch and switch to it
```
git branch branch1
git checkout branch1
```
To push that branch to remote
```
git push -u origin branch1
```
This associates the local branch to the remote branch.

### Merging changes to master
```
git merge branch1
```
### Undoing changes
If nothing has been committed yet,
```
git checkout
```
#### Bad Commits

##### Before it Reaches others

If (careful!) not pulled by others yet
```
git commit --amend -m "message"
```
That changes the hash of the commit. 

##### After others have Pulled it
This takes you back to a previous commit but creates a new commit in the history
```
git revert hash1
```

##### Committing to the Wrong Branch
Switch to the correct branch (using `git checkout branchX` then
```
git cherry-pick hash1
```
where hash1 is the commit that went to the wrong branch. To delete from the wrong branch, switch back to that branch then
```
git reset --soft hash1
```
or
```
git reset --hard hash1 # deletes changes to the tracked files
git clean -df # removes changes to files that were not added to the staging area
```
It's really important to keep the git messages.

### Inspecting Previous Commits
```
git reflog
git checkout hash1
```
Entering the "detached-head" state, where we are not on a branch.
```
git branch branch2
```
creates a branch from that commit, I think.

### Comparing Changes
This compares two commits
```
git diff hash1 hash2
```
### Comparing Two Random Folders
```
git diff --no-index dir1 dir2
```

### Git over SSH

```
ssh://192.168.xx.xx:8022/data/data/com.termux/files/home/folder
```
where `folder` is a git repository.

## Common Scenarios

### Pushing to an Updated Repository
You update a repository locally and don't commit. Somebody updates the remote repository and now you want to push your local changes. In order to do that, you first try `git pull`, and you get an error message.
```
error message
```

Following the advice given [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6769644/git-telling-me-to-pull-then-commit-then-pull#6769660)

"*First, I think if you were to git add then git commit, your local repo would be clean enough to do a `git pull`.
However, if there may be changes you don't want to commit until you see what happened on the upstream, you can use `git stash`. It will temporarily clean up your working directory and save your changes, so you can pull (I would recommend `git pull --rebase` to avoid merge points - but it is a personal taste issue). Once you have upstream changes pulled, you can get your local modifications back using `git stash pop`. After you clean up conflicts and get rid of unnecessary changes, you can add, commit, then finally push.*"

```
git stash
```
This saves the local changes and cleans the tree. 
```
git pull --rebase 
```
Pulls the changes from the remote. The rebase
```
git stash pop
```
Then you will probably need to [resolve merge conflicts](https://help.github.com/en/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line). Git will summarize the changes to the file this way
```
If you have questions, please
<<<<<<< UPDATED UPSTREAM
open an issue
=======
ask your question in IRC.
>>>>>>> STASHED CHANGES
More stuff.
```
Remove the `<<<<<<<`, `=======`, `>>>>>>>` markers, make sure the file is in the version you want, then push.