---
layout: post
title: "Radicale"
date: 2018-05-20
categories: jekyll update
---

(To be updated later)

Syncing the calendar over the internet the open source way. To be used on an Android, for example.

## Requirements
* [Radicale](https://radicale.org/)
* DAVDroid which is now [DAVx5](https://www.davx5.com/tested-with/radicale)
* A calendar client such as [Simple Calendar](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.simplemobiletools.calendar&hl=en_US)

## Running locally
I have managed to run radicale, create a calendar, import events using Davx5, edit the calendar and import it on a local network.

### Radicale Settings

After [installing Radicale](https://radicale.org/), a matter of running this command
```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade radicale
```
Create two folders (wherever you want, just remember the location), one for the radicale users and the other for the radicale configuration file. 

Run this command to get bcrypt,
```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade radicale[bcrypt]
```
Go to the radicale users directory you created, and add a username and password like this
```
htpasswd -B -c userX user1
```
You will be prompted to set a password. The above command will create a user and a password in a file called `userX`.

After that, add the following to your configuration file. You will need to know
* your ip address
* the path to your user (the path to the `userX` file above)

If you leave the ip address as the default setting `0.0.0.0:5323`, you will not be able to access it from other computers, so change it to 192.168.x.y (whatever `ifconfig` says)

```
[server]
# Bind all addresses
hosts = your.ip.address.x:5232 

[auth]
type = htpasswd
htpasswd_filename = /path/to/your/user
htpasswd_encryption = bcrypt
[storage]
filesystem_folder = ~/.var/lib/radicale/collections
```
Now you can start Radicale, giving the path to your configuration file
```
python3 -m radicale --config "/path/to/radicale/configuration/file"
```
More Radicale configuration options can be found [here](https://radicale.org/configuration/).

### DAVx5 Settings
Install it from F-Droid, then press the + sign, choose `Login with URL and user name`, and follow the instructions.

### Simple Calendar Settings
Go on *Settings* > *CALDAV*, and turn the switch on. The calendar events can now show on your calendar, and you can add and delete events. 

## Running remotely
This is what I am currently working on once I put my hands on a server.
