---
layout: post
title:  "The Great Vim"
date:   2018-07-09
categories: jekyll update
---
I have been using vim for a long time as my favorite text editor but havent gone through its introductory tutorial
```
vimtutor
```
Check it out, good stuff there. However, it's really a small subset from what Vim can do. There is also extensive help when you excute the command `:help` from within Vim. Check out `:h quickref` for a quick reference, `:h index` for the complete list of commands. I recommend this [three part series](https://thevaluable.dev/vim-advanced/).

## Notable features

### Basics
Vim has differet modes: *Normal*, *Insert*, and *Visual* modes. **Unless otherwise stated, the following commmands all run in normal mode**.

### Terminology
* A buffer is the in-memory text of a file.
* A window is a viewport on a buffer.
* A tab page is a collection of windows.

### Navigation 
This will help you browse large files
* Page up `CTRL-U`
* Page down `CTRL-D`

### Splitting Windows
* To split horizontally `:split`
* To split vertically `:vsplit`

These two commands show two views of the same file when used without an argument. Just add the filename you want if you'd like to see it side by side

```
:vs filename
```
I used the abbreviated form of `:vsplit`. To close windows `:close`

To navigate through split windows,
```
CTRL-W + navigation keys
```
To close all other windows `CTRL-W + o`.

### Tab page
You can open tabpages instead. As follows:
```
tabnew filename
```
See `:h tabpage` for more info.

### Visual mode
I will give an example of moving text around within a file. 

1. Press `v` to enter visual mode
2. Highlight the text using navigation keys
3. Press `d` to delete it (it would would move it to a register)
4. Move the cursor to where you want to put it, and press `p`.

### Numbering lists
Using commands, you can do [the following](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4224410/macro-for-making-numbered-lists-in-vim):
```
command! -nargs=0 -range=% Number <line1>,<line2>s/^\s*\zs/\=(line('.') - <line1>+1).'. '
```
Put this in your `.vimrc`.

### Visual blocks
This is a nice feature to have to copy *visual* columns from a list, stored as a text file or printed to the screen. Use `CTRL-V`.

### Registers
`:dis` to see what's in the registers. You can use this as follows: the register `":` contains the value of the last entered command, so press `":p` to display the last entered command on the text file. 

### Moving lines
Place the cursor on a line then use 
```
:m10
```
to move it to the 10th line. To display line numbers,
```
:set number
```
and use `:set nonumber` to undo this.

### Putting text
The following puts 'hi' on the first line.
```
:0put='hi'
```
The `put` command puts things after the specified line number.

### Navigation
In normal mode, point at a filename such as `~/.vimrc`, then press `gf`. It will take you to that file (everything needs to be saved first).

### Removing Control Characters
[Read about it here](https://www.tech-recipes.com/rx/150/remove-m-characters-at-end-of-lines-in-vi/)
```
:%s/^V^M//g
```
### Making a list of numbers
You can do this with 
```
:put=range(1,5)
```
See more about this [here](https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Making_a_list_of_numbers?useskin=monobook). You can also use python's range function
```
:r !python -c "print([k for k in range(10)])"
[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
```
This is good for quick calculations. You can also use `bc` if you have it:

### Quick calculations
Similar to the above, you can do 
```
:r !echo 12+12/13+2*8|bc -l
28.92307692307692307692
```
Or ruby (which doesn't need to import functions like python),
```
:r !ruby -e 'puts(Math.exp(1))'
2.718281828459045
```
## Cool plugins
The following plugins are of interest for programmers
* NERDTree, to display the file tree
* Taglist, good for browsing through tags
* Ultisnip, for auto completion

