---
layout: post
title: "Dired, Dired+"
date: 2018-09-15
categories: linux jekyll update
---

Mastering `dired` greatly improves everyone's efficiency. The first step of work is usually browsing files or folder.

*But then is it possible to open them with the default application in Windows?*

Answer from [Stack Overflow](https://emacs.stackexchange.com/questions/37088/windows-open-files-by-default-application):

> 1. You are apparently using MS Windows. If so, see section If You Use Emacs on MS Windows of the Dired+ doc. It explains how to use Windows file associations in Dired. In a nutshell, loading library w32-browser.el lets you use M-RET (command dired-w32-browser) to open a file or directory in a Dired listing using its Windows-associated application. You can also use mouse-3 and choose menu item Open Associated Windows App, or use the same menu item in menu-bar menu Single. (C-RET opens Windows Explorer for the file or dir.). If you want to use the Windows-associated app when you hit RET then just bind dired-w32-browser to RET. I use RET for the usual Emacs behavior and M-RET for the Windows app, but you can bind the commands to any keys you like (in dired-mode-map, of course).
> 2. More generally (all platforms, including MS Windows), you can use option dired-guess-shell-alist-user to define default applications for acting on files in Dired using ! and similar commands. This is not special to Dired+. It is available by loading standard library dired-x.el (which is loaded automatically by Dired+).


# Getting `Dired+`

I don't know if there is an easier method but this is the method I followed.

1. First you'll notice that it's not available with `M-x list-packages`. It's on the emacswiki. 
2. In order to install it, you can download it and place it in `~/emacs.d` and add this folder to `load-path`
3. Since I might be doing this with other packages, however, there is a tool called `el-get` that takes care of downloading code from emacswiki
4. `el-get` is available from `M-x list-packages`. Install it, and install `w32-browser` with it
5. Now use `el-get-list-packages` to install `dired+`
6. There might be additional steps like modifying the path. Check the installation instructions of these tools if you run into something


Now you can enjoy life. Make a list or a table of your favorite folders and browse to them with `dired+`, then use `M-x` to open them outside emacs if needed.

e.g.

```
| file        | location         |
|-------------|------------------|
| Home Folder | [[~/]]           |
| Documents   | [[~/Documents/]] |
```
	
